So let's look at the process that I use,
cuz I get this is a big
chunk of the work that I do is
post-launch optimization work.
So I'll just very briefly talk you
through the process that I sell into my
clients and I tend to do with them.
It's very high tech and
you may well have trouble following it.
No, it's not, it's very straightforward.
It's embarrassingly straightforward,
actually,
considering the amount
that I get paid to do it.
So, first of all,
identify drop out pages, right?
So where in your app,
where in your website,
bear in mind I tend to do conversion
rate optimization on marketing websites.
So apologies if I talk in that tone,
the same principle applies.
I find where things are going wrong,
and that's step one.
Then step two is identify the problem
with that underperforming page.
There's a particular place in the app or
in the website or whatever where things
are going wrong, but okay,
what's the specific problem on that point?
Then that hopefully triggers
a load of potential solutions.
I then test the solution, right?
Mind blown at this
amazing technique I have.
Then I roll out that solution, right?
And I go back to the beginning and
start all over again,
identify the next drop out point and
rinse and repeat endlessly forever, right?
So let's just run through that a bit
more detailed so it makes sense.
So I start almost always in
Google Analytics, really.
I'm basically just looking for
pages that have got high bounce rate or
a high exit page, right?
So where people are going,
screw this, I'm off, right?
Those are the points that you've got.
And, of course,
you're gonna find lots of those.
So that's your list that you're
working through over time,
you start with the ones with
the highest bounce rate and
the highest dropout rate and
then just work your way down.
So once I've found a page from that,
I then shift across typically
into that Microsoft Clarity
that I talked about earlier.
And I'm looking for
certain things on the page.
First of all,
you gotta identify what the problem is.
Is it the fact that the user
is missing something, right?
So are they missing something on the page?
So what I'll look at is, say, the heat
maps of the page to see where people's
attention is going on the page,
where they're looking.
I look at the session recorders and I
might even use my eye tracking software to
see where people are looking and whether
they might have overlooked something.
So if it's not that,
another common problem is,
did people not understand something?
So they've seen it, but they didn't
understand what it is or how it works.
So in that case I'm looking for
things like rage clicks.
You know when someone repeatedly clicks
on something that's not clickable because
they're annoyed?
Or any click on a non-clickable item,
they're clicking on an image where
it's only the text underneath
that's clickable, things like that.
Or did they trigger some kind
of validation error on a form?
That's another common one that
causes people to abandon,
cuz they entered their data
in the wrong way or whatever.
And if it's not those,
then the third area I'm often
looking at is do we not convince them,
right?
So is it that what we're producing,
our messaging is not convincing enough,
is not compelling enough.
And so
I tend to use an exit intent survey,
asking people why they didn't act,
right, for my kind of marketing site.
But it's normally one of those
three reasons, basically, and
you just look at different
sources to identify it.
And then you go, okay, so people
aren't understanding this form field,
or they missed this drop down menu,
or whatever it is.
Then okay, how do we fix that?
I've got some ideas about how to fix that.
And I come up with those different ideas,
maybe even multiple versions.
I tend to favor three or four at least
different versions that you can have.
It depends on how you're gonna test it but
basically, yeah,
I get a variety, and
then I'll test it, right?
Now, how I test will depend on size,
basically, of what your solution is,
right?
So if it's just a little small solution,
if you're making changes to color,
text, layout, little things like that,
then I tend to favor doing A/B testing,
which is what we're talking about earlier.
So with me I use VWO a lot
of the time to do that.
You could use Google Optimize that's free.
It's up to you what you use.
But basically, I'll run a test where I'll
send a small portion of the audience,
to see each one of the different
solutions, right, that I've come up with.
If it's a more substantial test,
like I'm changing the whole flow of, say,
a checkout system or something like
that which has got multiple changes and
they're quite complex, so
it's a larger set of changes.
That's when normally I end
up prototyping a solution.
And as we were discussing earlier, I tend
to favor a facilitated usability testing
to actually understand, well, if it did
work better, why did it work better?
Because the why is a really
important aspect of it,
because that allows you to further
refine the idea even further.
So, for example, I remember doing
one test once where we replaced
a VeriSign logo on an e-commerce site,
you know where it says
you're verified, signed secure,
and we replaced that.
I couldn't help but feeling that my
audience didn't know what that meant and
they were worried about security.
So that was my hypothesis, if you like.
And I then replaced that with just
a padlock and some text, right?
Little picture of padlock,
bit of text saying secure.
And when I did the usability testing,
they would say, so
that's so much better,
I understand now that it's secure.
And they actually started to give
me some feedback about wording.
It'd make even more sense if it said blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
Great, you don't get that from A/B
testing, do you see what I mean?
So just bear that in mind,
depending on the size of
the test that you're working on.
And then like I said,
it's just launch and repeat, basically.
You fix one problem, you go on to
the next, and that is really forever.
[LAUGH] You just carry on
working through the list,
constantly refining and
constantly improving.
And that is fundamentally it with
that post-launch optimization phase.
It's not complicated, but
it is where you make the real wins.
It's small little changes that make
an enormous difference to improving
the experience.
And you need to get in the habit of doing
that on an ongoing continual basis cuz
there's always things to improve.
There's always things to fix
because you improve one thing and
you end up breaking another.
Or you improve one area and
it just exposes problems
that users didn't get to
further down in the journey.
So really, right from the beginning, start
talking about the importance of this kind
of work cuz it is absolutely
fundamental to your success.